Improve navigation-configuration.md (#826)
SAP/luigi: docs/navigation-configuration.md

Read these guides to get started with configuring your navigation:

* [Navigation elements](#navigation-elements) 
* [First steps](#first-steps)
* [Basic navigation parameters](#basic-navigation-parameters)
* [Grouping navigation nodes](#grouping-navigation-nodes)
  * [category](#category)
  * [viewGroup](#viewGroup)
* [Creating a dynamic path](#creating-a-dynamic-path)
  * [pathSegment variables](#pathsegment-variables)
  * [viewUrl variables](#viewurl-variables)
  * [Node variables](#node-variables)
  * [Dynamic viewUrl](#dynamic-viewurl)

If you are already familiar with the basics, take a look at:
* [Full reference list of navigation parameters](navigation-parameters-reference.md)

## Navigation elements

There are three main elements to Luigi: 

1. Top navigation which displays the main navigation path.
2. Side navigation which displays the defined applications.
3. Main content window which renders the micro frontend.
 

![Navigation layout](https://github.com/SAP/luigi/blob/master/docs/assets/navigation-structure.png)

## First steps

Find the `basicConfiguration.js` file in your luigi-config folder. You can configure the navigation by editing this file. 

> You will notice that the file consists of a tree-like structure of **navigation nodes**. The outer nodes represent the top navigation, while their children represent the side navigation. The nodes have some basic properties (called **navigation parameters**) such as labels, links, views, and (optionally) children.

Reviewer: I am not sure if it is clear what 'outer nodes' means. Maybe we can say 'first level nodes' or something similar.

Author: Thank you for the thorough review, I really appreciate it! 🙇‍♀

````javascript 
navigation: {
  nodes: [
    {
      pathSegment: 'TopNav1',
      label: 'Top Navigation Element One',
      viewUrl: 'https://microfronted.com',
      children: [
        {
          pathSegment: 'SideNav1',
          label: 'Side Navigation Element One',
          viewUrl: 'https://microfrontend.com/projects/list.html',
          children: [
            {
              link: '/TopNav1/internalLink',
              label: 'This takes you to yourwebsite.com/TopNav1/internalLink',
            },
            {
              externalLink: {
                url: 'http://www.google.com',
                sameWindow: false
              },
              label: 'This takes you to an external page',
            },
          ]
        },
      ]
    },
    {
      pathSegment: 'TopNav2',
      label: 'Top Navigation Element Two',
      viewUrl: 'https://2ndmicrofronted.com',
      children: [
...
````

## Basic navigation parameters

>**NOTE:** For a full list of available parameters, see the [parameter reference](navigation-parameters-reference.md) document.

In the "First steps" example, you saw some basic navigation parameters:

### pathSegment

> This is the path in the browser URL. The main application path is built from values in the navigation path, joined with the **/** character. For example, if the value of this parameter is `home`, the path will be `yourwebsite.com/home`. You can override this setting by using one of the following instead of **pathSegment**: 

Reviewer: "This is the path in the browser URL." -  pathSegment is rather used to build the path. A particular pathSegment is one segment on the path. (I know this is clear but 'pathSegment - "This is the path in the browser URL." can be misleading.)

* **externalLink** - takes you to an external website. You must define the **url** of the website and whether it should be opened in a new window (`sameWindow: false`) or the same window (`sameWindow: true`).
### label
The name of the node which will be visible on your page.
### viewUrl
The URL of the micro frontend which will be displayed in the main content area of your page. 

## Grouping navigation nodes

You may use these parameters if you want to group related navigation nodes:

### category 
Simply add the **category** property to the navigation nodes you want to group, and they will be rendered in a dropdown. You should define at least one node in a group with **label** and **icon** properties. For all other nodes, you can set category as a string with the label value. The **collapsible** property is optional and defines whether the dropdown is expanded by default or not. 

```javascript
{
  category: { label: 'Links', icon: 'myIcon', collapsible: true },
  externalLink: {
    url: 'http://www.google.com',
    sameWindow: false
  },
  label: 'Click here to visit Google.com',
}, 
...
 ```

### viewGroup

> Imagine your application hosts two micro frontend views: `http://mysite.com/a#e` and  `http://mysite.com/b#f`. Due to hash routing and a different path up to `#`, they are, by default, rendered in different iframes. However, as they both have the **same origin**, such as`mysite.com`, and belong to the **same micro frontend** you want to render them in the same iframe. To achieve that, use the view groups feature. Define the **viewGroup** parameter for top navigation nodes. The children nodes will automatically be considered as part of the same view group. 

Reviewer: "Define the **viewGroup** parameter for top navigation nodes." - this might be confusing as the term 'top navigation' is used to refer to the hotizontal top navigation area. You can define viewGroup on a node on any level belonging to top or left navigation.

```javascript 
navigation: {
  nodes: [
    {
      pathSegment: 'TopNav1',
      label: 'Top Navigation Element One',
      viewUrl: 'https://microfronted.com',
      children: [
        {
          pathSegment: 'SideNav1',
          label: 'Side Navigation Element One',
          viewUrl: 'https://microfrontend.com/projects/list.html',
          children: [
            {
              link: '/TopNav1/internalLink',
              label: 'This takes you to yourwebsite.com/TopNav1/internalLink',
            },
            {
              externalLink: {
                url: 'http://www.google.com',
                sameWindow: false
              },
              label: 'This takes you to an external page',
            },
          ]
        },
      ]
    },
    {
      pathSegment: 'TopNav2',
      label: 'Top Navigation Element Two',
      viewUrl: 'https://2ndmicrofronted.com',
      children: [
...
```

## Basic navigation parameters

>**NOTE:** For a full list of available parameters, see the [parameter reference](navigation-parameters-reference.md) document.

The [first steps](#first-steps) example provides some basic navigation parameters:

### pathSegment

> This is used to build the path in the browser URL. The main application path is built from values in the navigation path, joined with the **/** character. For example, if the value of a node's **pathSegment** is `home`, the path for that node will be `yourwebsite.com/home`. You can override this setting by using one of the following instead of **pathSegment**: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is used to build the path in the browser URL. The main application path is built from values in the navigation path, joined with the **/** character. For example, if the value of a node's **pathSegment** is `home`, the path for that node would be `yourwebsite.com/home`. You can override this setting by using one of the following instead of **pathSegment**: 
```

* **link** - define a specific internal path. Note that a valid path must always start from the **root node**. For example, if your root node is `home`, and you want to navigate to the `projects` directory:
	- `link: '/home/projects'` is correct
	- `link: '/projects'`is not correct, since `/projects` is not the root node 
* **externalLink** - takes you to an external website. You must define the **url** of the website and whether it should be opened in a new window (`sameWindow: false`) or the same window (`sameWindow: true`).
### label

> The name of the node which will be visible on your page.

Reviewer 2: For example, here the use of `will` is fine :) as the node will be visible once some actions are executed.

```javascript
navigation: {
    nodes: [
      {
        pathSegment: 'home',
        label: 'Home',
        viewUrl: 'https://microfrontend.com/',
        children: [
          {
            pathSegment: 'users',
            label: 'User List',
            viewUrl: 'https://microfrontend.com/users/list.html#pagenr={nodeParams.page};sort={nodeParams.sorting}',
            children: [
              {
                pathSegment: ':userId',
                label: 'User Profile',
                viewUrl: 'https://microfrontend.com/projects/details.html#id=:userId;'
              }
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
} 
...
```

 Use the following options to work with node parameters:

Build the **viewUrl** by placing parameters anywhere in the **viewUrl** value using the following syntax: `nodeParams.{node param name}`. For example, if the main application URL is `https://yourwebsite.com/home/projects/?~sorting=asc&~page=2` then the **viewUrl** of a micro frontend is `https://microfrontend.com/projects/list.html#pagenr=2;sort=asc`.

### Dynamic viewUrl

You can use both node parameters and path parameters to build a dynamic **viewUrl**.

> For example, if the web application URL is `https://luigi.corp/something/sample_1/products?~sort=asc`, the micro frontend will load using a different URL, such as `https://admin.my.test/project/sample_1/products?sort=asc`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if the web application URL is `https://luigi.corp/something/sample_1/products?~sort=asc`, the micro frontend loads using a different URL, such as `https://admin.my.test/project/sample_1/products?sort=asc`.
```
I would maybe use the present tense - it's not mandatory in each and every case, but here it's the expected micro frontend behavior, I'd say.

# Navigation configuration

Read these guides to get started with configuring your navigation:

* [Navigation elements](#navigation-elements) 
* [First steps](#first-steps)
* [Basic navigation parameters](#basic-navigation-parameters)
* [Grouping navigation nodes](#grouping-navigation-nodes)
  * [category](#category)
  * [viewGroup](#viewGroup)
* [Creating a dynamic path](#creating-a-dynamic-path)
  * [pathSegment variables](#pathsegment-variables)
  * [viewUrl variables](#viewurl-variables)
  * [Node variables](#node-variables)
  * [Dynamic viewUrl](#dynamic-viewurl)

If you are already familiar with the basics, take a look at:
* [Full reference list of navigation parameters](navigation-parameters-reference.md)

## Navigation elements

There are three main elements to Luigi: 

1. Top navigation which displays the main navigation path.
2. Side navigation which displays the defined applications.
3. Main content window which renders the micro frontend.
 

> ![Navigation layout](https://github.com/SAP/luigi/blob/master/docs/assets/navigation-structure.png)

Author: /assets/navigation-structure.png is shorter, so it's probably better than the absolute path 👍 you're right

* **link** - define a specific internal path. Note that a valid path must always start from the **root node**. For example, if your root node is `home`, and you want to navigate to the `projects` directory:
	- `link: '/home/projects'` is correct
	- `link: '/projects'`is not correct, since `/projects` is not the root node 
* **externalLink** - takes you to an external website. You must define the **url** of the website and whether it should be opened in a new window (`sameWindow: false`) or the same window (`sameWindow: true`).
### label
The name of the node which will be visible on your page.
### viewUrl
The URL of the micro frontend which will be displayed in the main content area of your page. 

## Grouping navigation nodes

You may use these parameters if you want to group related navigation nodes:

### category 
You can add the **category** property to navigation nodes you want to group. The resulting structure will be different depending on whether you want to group top or side navigation nodes. In both cases, you should define at least one node in a group with **label** and **icon** properties. For all other nodes, you can set **category** as a string with the label value. 

> **Top navigation:**

Author: 👍

Top navigation nodes in the same category will be rendered as a dropdown. 

**Side navigation:**
Side navigation nodes will be grouped under a header with the category name. They can be configured to be `collapsible` or not. 

This is an example of what a node with a category including a label and icon looks like:

```javascript
{
  category: { label: 'Links', icon: 'myIcon', collapsible: true },
  externalLink: {
    url: 'http://www.google.com',
    sameWindow: false
  },
  label: 'Click here to visit Google.com',
}, 
...
 ```

 All subsequent nodes will only need to be defined using the category label like so: 

 ```javascript
{
  category: Links,
  externalLink: {
    url: 'http://www.luigi-project.io',
    sameWindow: false
  },
  label: 'Click here to visit the Luigi homepage',
}, 
...
 ```

### viewGroup

> Imagine your application hosts two micro frontend views: `http://mysite.com/a#e` and  `http://mysite.com/b#f`. Due to hash routing and a different path up to `#`, they are, by default, rendered in different iframes. However, as they both have the **same origin**, such as`mysite.com`, and belong to the **same micro frontend** you want to render them in the same iframe. To achieve that, use the view groups feature. Define the **viewGroup** parameter for any navigation node. The children nodes will automatically be considered as part of the same view group. 

Author: I talked to Philipp and he said in this context iframes makes sense. Also that we're not forbidden from using it but we should avoid it if possible. 😄

> Imagine your application hosts two micro frontend views: `http://mysite.com/a#e` and  `http://mysite.com/b#f`. Due to hash routing and a different path up to `#`, they are, by default, rendered in different iframes. However, as they both have the **same origin**, such as`mysite.com`, and belong to the **same micro frontend** you want to render them in the same iframe. To achieve that, use the view groups feature. Define the **viewGroup** parameter for any navigation node. The children nodes will automatically be considered as part of the same view group. 

Reviewer 2: 👍

> Nodes belonging to the same view group are always rendered in their own view group iframe. Nodes not belonging to any view group follow the same-origin iframe rendering policy. 

Reviewer 2: 👍

You can also preload view groups. You just need to define which URL you want to preload, and Luigi will preload the view after some user interactions when the browser is most likely to be idle. This option is active by default, but you can deactivate it with a [configuration flag](navigation-parameters-reference.md#node-parameters).

For more information on setting caching with view refreshing and preloading for view groups, read [this document](navigation-parameters-reference.md#node-parameters).

## Creating a dynamic path
In Luigi, you can make a navigation path dynamically changeable according to your needs. This is accomplished by defining variables within the **pathSegement** or **viewUrl** navigation paths. 

### pathSegment variables

> Instead of a static value for your **pathSegment**, you can add a colon to this value to make it act as a variable, for example `:userId`. This tells Luigi to accept any value for this **pathSegment**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of a static value for your **pathSegment**, you can add a colon to this value to make it act as a variable. For example, you can use `:userId`. This tells Luigi to accept any value for this **pathSegment**. 
```
We try to avoid `for example` in the middle of the sentence. We rather start with it and use `such as` in the middle. (https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content#style-and-terminology-style-and-terminology-terminology)

> In this example, a `userId`path variable is defined: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example shows you a defined `userId` path variable: 
```

````javascript
navigation: {
    nodes: [
      {
        pathSegment: 'home',
        label: 'Home',
        viewUrl: 'https://microfrontend.com/',
        children: [
          {
            pathSegment: 'users',
            label: 'User List',
            viewUrl: 'https://microfrontend.com/users/list.html',
            children: [
              {
                pathSegment: ':userId',
                label: 'User Profile',
                // E.g. if userId is 'JohnSmith'
                // the main application URL will be https://yourwebsite.com/users/JohnSmith
              }
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
...
````

### viewUrl variables

> You have three options to add a variable to **viewUrl**: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have the following options to add a variable to **viewUrl**: 
```
I was once told that it is better to write `the following` than a specific number, in case the number changes. :)

- Place the parameter anywhere in the **viewUrl** value. For example, if the main application URL is `https://yourwebsite.com/home/users/JohnSmith`, then the **viewUrl** of the micro frontend in the content area can be `https://microfrontend.com/users/details.html#id=JohnSmith`. 
- Use the [Luigi Client API](luigi-client-api.md) to access the node parameter values from the micro frontend. Use the `LuigiClient.getPathParams()` function. 

> For example, to get the value of the `userId` parameter, use `LuigiClient.getPathParams().userId`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to get the value of the `userId`  variable, use `LuigiClient.getPathParams().userId`. 
```
I would say `userId` is more of a variable. I might be wrong though 🤔 it's something to check :)

Author: Again, after consulting with the devs, it turns out it should be "parameter" everywhere, so I changed it ;)

Reviewer 2: 👍

- Add a parameter to the context part of your configuration:

```javascript
{
  pathSegment: ':userId',
  label: 'User Profile',
  viewUrl: 'https://microfrontend.com/users/details.html#id=:userId;',
  context: {
    user: ':userId'
  }
} 
  ...
```

> In all three cases, the parameter is automatically replaced by the real value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In all these cases, the parameter is automatically replaced by the real value.
```
